Announcements Manual

Table of Contents
-----------------
1. Creating A New Announcement
2. The Announcement List
3. Edit An Existing Announcement
4. Deleting An Announcement
5. Approving A User Submitted Announcement

1. Creating A New Announcement
------------------------------
This is a step by step description of how to create a new announcement.  The
assumption is made that the user is currrently logged in as an administrator
and has the announce module selected:

1. Select "New Announcement" from the menu along the top.
2. The subject and summary will show up on the main page as a summary of the
announcement.  The body will show up as the full announcement if a user chooses
to read more of your announcement.  The subject and summary are required to
post an announcement.
3. If an image is provided for the announcement, it will show up in the full
view for the announcement.  A short description must be provided for the image
you upload.
4. If you have created categories for your site, you can select a category for
your announcement to be put into.  This will allow phpWebSite to automatically
show related site content when a user views your announcement.
5. The post on date is the date you wish your announcement to actually show up
on your main page.  This allows you to queue up several announcements and have
them "post themselves" at the appropriate times.
6. The expiration date is the date you wish your announcement to be pulled down
from the main page.  This allows you to create an announcement that will be
invalid at a certain date and have phpWebSite automatically pull the announcement
off the main page on that date.
7. You can choose to allow comments for each announcement and whether or not to
allow anonymous submissions to those comments.  Anonymous submissions are simply
comments submitted by a user who does not have an account on your web site.
8. Once you have filled in all the neccesssary data for your announcement, click
the "Save" button to save and you will be given a message indicating that your
announcement was saved and you will be taken to your list of current announcements
in the system.

2. The Announcement List
------------------------
At various times when using the announce module, you will end up at the announcement
list page. The announcement list shows the announcements currently saved in the system.
These announcements can be expired, or even hidden from public view, but they
will still show up in the announcement list.  There are various actions you can perform
on an announcement using the list.  These actions are hide, show, edit, and delete.
Hide and show will either hide an announcement from public view or show an announcement
that was once hidden from public view.  Edit will send the cooresponding announcement
into edit mode and allow you to edit the data for that announcement.  Delete will take
you into a delete confirmation for the cooresponding announcement and will ultimately
allow you to delete the announcement.

3. Edit An Existing Announcement
--------------------------------
To edit an existing announcement:
1. Find the announcement you wish to edit in the announcement list.
2. Select the edit button from the actions for the cooresponding announcement.
3. Change any data you wish to change (reference the create announcement section of
this document for descriptions of each data piece).
4. Select the "Save" button to save your changes.
5. A message will be printed indicating your announcement has been saved and you will
be taken to the announcement list.

4. Deleting An Announcement
---------------------------
To delete an existing announcement:
1. Find the announcement you wish to delete in the announcement list.
2. Select the "Delete" button from the actions for the cooresponding announcement.
3. Confirm the deletion by selecting "Yes" or "No".
4. If you selected "No" a message is printed indicating the announcement was kept.
You can select "List Announcements" from the menu across the top to return to the
announcement listing.
5. If you selected "Yes" a message is printed indicating the announcement was removed.
You can select "List Announcements" from the menu across the top to return to the
announcement listing.

5. Approving A User Submitted Announcement
------------------------------------------
If you have enabled the ability for visitors to your site to submit announcements,
you can view and approve these announcements using the approval module (see approval
module docs for details).